docs/devices/BHT-002-GCLZB.md, before:

---
title: "Moes BHT-002-GCLZB control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Moes BHT-002-GCLZB via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-09-30T20:52:56Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Moes BHT-002-GCLZB

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | BHT-002-GCLZB  |
| Vendor  | Moes  |
| Description | Moes BHT series Thermostat |
| Exposes | lock (state), deadzone_temperature, max_temperature_limit, climate (current_heating_setpoint, local_temperature, local_temperature_calibration, system_mode, running_state, preset, sensor), linkquality |
| Picture | ![Moes BHT-002-GCLZB](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/BHT-002-GCLZB.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing
Switch the thermostat off. Press and hold the temperature down button for +- 8 seconds to enable the pairing mode (display lights up and a WiFi-like icon is blinking). After successful interview turn the thermostat on again.

### Stop message flooding
This unit has a bug that makes it send multiple messages when updating. To stop this from flooding your MQTT Queues, please add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:


devices:
  '0x12345678':
    friendly_name: thermostat
    debounce: 1
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Exposes

### Lock 
The current state of this lock is in the published state under the `child_lock` property (value is `LOCK` or `UNLOCK`).
To control this lock publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"child_lock": "LOCK"}` or `{"child_lock": "UNLOCK"}`.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.

### Deadzone_temperature (numeric)
The delta between local_temperature and current_heating_setpoint to trigger Heat.
Value can be found in the published state on the `deadzone_temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"deadzone_temperature": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `5`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Max_temperature_limit (numeric)
Maximum temperature limit.
Value can be found in the published state on the `max_temperature_limit` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"max_temperature_limit": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `35`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Climate 
This climate device supports the following features: `current_heating_setpoint`, `local_temperature`, `local_temperature_calibration`, `system_mode`, `running_state`, `preset`, `sensor`.
- `current_heating_setpoint`: Temperature setpoint. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"current_heating_setpoint": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the °C between `5` and `30`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"current_heating_setpoint": ""}`.
- `local_temperature`: Current temperature measured on the device (in °C). Reading (`/get`) this attribute is not possible.
- `system_mode`: Mode of this device. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"system_mode": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `off`, `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"system_mode": ""}`.
- `preset`: Mode of this device (similar to system_mode). To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"preset": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `hold`, `program`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"preset": ""}`.
- `running_state`: The current running state. Possible values are: `idle`, `heat`, `cool`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"running_state": ""}`.
- `local_temperature_calibration`: Offset to be used in the local_temperature. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"local_temperature_calibration": VALUE}.`

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.

Commit message:

Correcting possible values of running_state
As cool is not available. Also added the `program` parameter of the climate feature as it is being returned as well.

docs/devices/BHT-002-GCLZB.md, after:

---
title: "Moes BHT-002-GCLZB control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your Moes BHT-002-GCLZB via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2020-09-30T20:52:56Z
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# Moes BHT-002-GCLZB

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | BHT-002-GCLZB  |
| Vendor  | Moes  |
| Description | Moes BHT series Thermostat |
| Exposes | lock (state), deadzone_temperature, max_temperature_limit, climate (current_heating_setpoint, local_temperature, local_temperature_calibration, system_mode, running_state, preset, sensor), linkquality |
| Picture | ![Moes BHT-002-GCLZB](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/BHT-002-GCLZB.jpg) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
## Notes


### Pairing
Switch the thermostat off. Press and hold the temperature down button for +- 8 seconds to enable the pairing mode (display lights up and a WiFi-like icon is blinking). After successful interview turn the thermostat on again.

### Stop message flooding
This unit has a bug that makes it send multiple messages when updating. To stop this from flooding your MQTT Queues, please add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:


devices:
  '0x12345678':
    friendly_name: thermostat
    debounce: 1
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Exposes

### Lock 
The current state of this lock is in the published state under the `child_lock` property (value is `LOCK` or `UNLOCK`).
To control this lock publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"child_lock": "LOCK"}` or `{"child_lock": "UNLOCK"}`.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.

### Deadzone_temperature (numeric)
The delta between local_temperature and current_heating_setpoint to trigger Heat.
Value can be found in the published state on the `deadzone_temperature` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"deadzone_temperature": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `5`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Max_temperature_limit (numeric)
Maximum temperature limit.
Value can be found in the published state on the `max_temperature_limit` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"max_temperature_limit": NEW_VALUE}`.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `35`.
The unit of this value is `°C`.

### Climate 
This climate device supports the following features: `current_heating_setpoint`, `local_temperature`, `local_temperature_calibration`, `system_mode`, `running_state`, `preset`, `sensor`, `program`.
- `current_heating_setpoint`: Temperature setpoint. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"current_heating_setpoint": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is the °C between `5` and `30`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"current_heating_setpoint": ""}`.
- `local_temperature`: Current temperature measured on the device (in °C). Reading (`/get`) this attribute is not possible.
- `system_mode`: Mode of this device. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"system_mode": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `off`, `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"system_mode": ""}`.
- `preset`: Mode of this device (similar to system_mode). To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"preset": VALUE}` where `VALUE` is one of: `hold`, `program`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"preset": ""}`.
- `running_state`: The current running state. Possible values are: `idle` and `heat`. To read send a message to `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"running_state": ""}`.
- `local_temperature_calibration`: Offset to be used in the local_temperature. To control publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"local_temperature_calibration": VALUE}.`
- `program`: Displays programmed weekly heating schedule. No control of the schedule is possible.

### Linkquality (numeric)
Link quality (signal strength).
Value can be found in the published state on the `linkquality` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`.
The unit of this value is `lqi`.
